The definition of climate states that the word “climate’ is used to refer to long term periodic variations in the weather patterns that are observed over centuries. Ever since the Earth was created, it is going through many changes simultaneously, and this leads to climate change. Climate change happens cyclically, it had started from a colder ice age, and at the very present, it is much warmer than it was two million years ago. All these millions of life forms we see today on Earth is because of the non-stop energy received from the Sun, which is the ultimate source of energy, which is continuously fuelling the weather system.

To jot down a few notable changes, the world is experiencing arbitrary droughts, unexpected weather patterns and sudden rainfall and snowfall, there is a constant fluctuation in the temperatures leading to disasters like a forest fire, and the weather is no longer predictable enough. The changes are random, and it is getting stressful day by day even to keep track of the changes occurring. These changes have drastically influenced human lives in both positive and negative wayEver since evolution has taken place, humans are continually using nature for their benefits. This has resulted in Some of these are – huge carbon dioxide content in the environment and other harmful materials in the atmosphere and water, the regular use of the fossil fuels has led to the complete exhaustion of it. The constant exploitation of natural resources and not taking any significant steps to make the situation better and ultimately resulted in the accumulation of harmful gases in the environment. The ozone layer depletion caused by greenhouse gases is also due to climate change.

These changes that we have caused to the ecosystem are not reversible. The only thing we can do is try to make the biosphere a better place to live in. Because in the upcoming days it is predicted that the Earth’s temperature will rise day by day leading to the extinction of life and this is because of the increasing amount of greenhouse gases being released in the atmosphere. The greenhouse gases trap in the heat which is supposed to be emitted..